In this section we will talk about post formats and post formats is a feature that your theme may choose
to support. And by supporting this feature you will allow users to change how posts look like.
So let's go to our folder and to the lib and theme-support. And let's add theme support for post formats. So "add_theme_support()"
and the feature's called "post-formats". And then we give it a second argument. And this second argument
will be an array of formats we would like to support.
So I'm gonna paste the formats that we are going to support. And then we will see how each one of these
should look like.
So we have the "aside", "image", "video", "quote" and "link", "gallery" and "audio". So let's save.
And now when you edit a post in the dashboard
you should have a post format field here. And the default is "Standard".
And then we have the other formats that we chose to support.
So we have the Theme Handbook here and we have a section for Post Formats. And in this guide it describes
how these formats should look like.
And it's actually you have some freedom on how the formats that can look like, but these are just some
general guidelines on how post formats should look like.
So during this section we will read every one of these and then we will decide how our post format should
look like.
But first remembering the dummy posts.
Let's search for "format" or actually search for "post format". And we had some posts here that
start with a "Post Format" and when we were going through the posts we mentioned that we will discuss
these in a separate section. So let's do that. We have the Standard Post Format here which is the default one.
And then we have other post formats.
And currently they are all using the default template.
So if we go to the, let's say, single.php. Oh sorry the index.php, all of the posts are using the loop template part.
So let's go to the loop template part. And then we'll find that all of the posts are using the post and
then content template part.
So we want to change that.
We want every post format to have its own template.
So in the page template folder or sorry in the template-parts folder,
and in the post, we would like to have different content for each post format.
So let's create a new file for example and call it content-aside.php. And this is one of the post
formats. And we would like for posts that have the aside post format use this template instead of the
content.
So to do that we can pass a second argument here and you already know that we can pass a second argument.
So if we pass "aside" here the get_template_part() will go and find a file called content-aside.
And if that's not found it will fall back to content.
So now that we are passing "aside" here it will go to content-aside.
But actually this way we will use the content-aside for all our posts but we need this to be dynamic.
So we can use a function called get_post_format() and this will return the post format for the current
post.
So this will be "aside", "audio", "video" and so on.
And this way we can create different files for each post format here that will be called content-
and then the post format name, right?
So let's type "aside" here.
And let's go to our index. And actually we have to do the, we have to add the get_post_format() in the other
loops. So in loop-single and also we should add the get_post_format() in the author and the archive, but we
are actually in the author, in the archive, we're using get_template_part() loop and author. But we don't have
loop-author here.
So it's falling back to loop and we already added the get_post_format here. So this should be working.
So we should find. Yeah as you can see we have "aside" here instead of displaying the post from the content.php,
we're now displaying from content-aside. So in content-aside now we can create another template
specifically for the aside post format.
So let's start coding the aside post format in the next lecture.
But before that lets go to content and we have some parts in the content that will be shared between
post formats.
So for example, we have the HEADER that will display the title and the metadata. And we also have the FOOTER
that will display the categories and tags.
So if we want to display this FOOTER in another post format, let's see the aside, we'll have to paste this whole code.
And that's of course not a best practice if you want to modify this later,
you'll have to go through all the post formats.
So let's create a template parts for the HEADER and the FOOTER for the post.
So inside the post I'll create a new file and I'm gonna call it header.php. And inside of it I'm gonna cut the
HEADER from the post, from the content. And paste it here.
And then open PHP here and get_template_part().
And this will be "template-parts/post/header".
And let's do the same for the FOOTER but let's just make sure this is working fine. And if we go to any
post the header is displaying correctly.
So let's go to, let's copy this and paste it here,
after the single if condition. And change this "footer". And copy this or cut it.
And then let's go create the footer in the post folder.
And paste.
And it's working fine.
So let's in the next lecture write some code for the aside post format.